Question 1: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Question 2: Preface.
Question 3: Most of the adventures recorded in this book really occurred; one or two were experiences of my own, the rest those of boys who were schoolmates of mine.
Question 4: Huck Finn is drawn from life; Tom Sawyer also, but not from an individual—he is a combination of the characteristics of three boys whom I knew, and therefore belongs to the composite order of architecture.
Question 5: The odd superstitions touched upon were all prevalent among children and slaves in the West at the period of this story—that is to say, thirty or forty years ago.
Question 6: Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls, I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account, for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves, and of how they felt and thought and talked, and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in.
Question 7: Chapter 1 - Y-o-u-u Tom-Aunt Polly Decides Upon Her Duty.
Question 8: TOM"!
Question 9: No answer.
Question 10: "TOM"!
Question 11: No answer.
Question 12: "What's gone with that boy, I wonder?
Question 13: You TOM"!
Question 14: No answer.
Question 15: The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about the room; then she put them up and looked out under them.
Question 16: She seldom or never looked THROUGH them for so small a thing as a boy; they were her state pair, the pride of her heart, and were built for "style," not service—she could have seen through a pair of stove-lids just as well.
Question 17: She looked perplexed for a moment, and then said, not fiercely, but still loud enough for the furniture to hear: "Well, I lay if I get hold of you I'll—" She did not finish, for by this time she was bending down and punching under the bed with the broom, and so she needed breath to punctuate the punches with.
Question 18: She resurrected nothing but the cat.
Question 19: "I never did see the beat of that boy"!
Question 20: She went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among the tomato vines and "jimpson" weeds that constituted the garden.
Question 21: No Tom.
Question 22: So she lifted up her voice at an angle calculated for distance and shouted: "Y-o-u-u TOM"!
Question 23: There was a slight noise behind her and she turned just in time to seize a small boy by the slack of his roundabout and arrest his flight.
Question 24: "There!
Question 25: I might 'a' thought of that closet.
Question 26: What you been doing in there"?
Question 27: "Nothing".
Question 28: "Nothing!
Question 29: Look at your hands.
Question 30: And look at your mouth.
Question 31: What IS that truck"?
Question 32: "I don't know, aunt".
Question 33: "Well, I know.
Question 34: It's jam—that's what it is.
Question 35: Forty times I've said if you didn't let that jam alone I'd skin you.
Question 36: Hand me that switch".
Question 37: The switch hovered in the air—the peril was desperate— "My!
Question 38: Look behind you, aunt"!
Question 39: The old lady whirled round, and snatched her skirts out of danger.
Question 40: The lad fled on the instant, scrambled up the high board-fence, and disappeared over it.
Question 41: His aunt Polly stood surprised a moment, and then broke into a gentle laugh.
Question 42: "Hang the boy, can't I never learn anything?
Question 43: Ain't he played me tricks enough like that for me to be looking out for him by this time?
Question 44: But old fools is the biggest fools there is.
Question 45: Can't learn an old dog new tricks, as the saying is.
Question 46: But my goodness, he never plays them alike, two days, and how is a body to know what's coming?
Question 47: He 'pears to know just how long he can torment me before I get my dander up, and he knows if he can make out to put me off for a minute or make me laugh, it's all down again and I can't hit him a lick.
Question 48: I ain't doing my duty by that boy, and that's the Lord's truth, goodness knows.
Question 49: Spare the rod and spile the child, as the Good Book says.
Question 50: I'm a laying up sin and suffering for us both, I know.
Question 51: He's full of the Old Scratch, but laws-a-me!
Question 52: he's my own dead sister's boy, poor thing, and I ain't got the heart to lash him, somehow.
Question 53: Every time I let him off, my conscience does hurt me so, and every time I hit him my old heart most breaks.
Question 54: Well-a-well, man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble, as the Scripture says, and I reckon it's so.
Question 55: He'll play hookey this evening, * and [* Southwestern for "afternoon"] I'll just be obleeged to make him work, tomorrow, to punish him.
Question 56: It's mighty hard to make him work Saturdays, when all the boys is having holiday, but he hates work more than he hates anything else, and I've GOT to do some of my duty by him, or I'll be the ruination of the child".
Question 57: Tom did play hookey, and he had a very good time.
Question 58: He got back home barely in season to help Jim, the small colored boy, saw next-day's wood and split the kindlings before supper—at least he was there in time to tell his adventures to Jim while Jim did three-fourths of the work.
Question 59: Tom's younger brother (or rather half-brother) Sid was already through with his part of the work (picking up chips), for he was a quiet boy, and had no adventurous, trouble-some ways.
Question 60: While Tom was eating his supper, and stealing sugar as opportunity offered, Aunt Polly asked him questions that were full of guile, and very deep—for she wanted to trap him into damaging revealments.
Question 61: Like many other simple-hearted souls, it was her pet vanity to believe she was endowed with a talent for dark and mysterious diplomacy, and she loved to contemplate her most transparent devices as marvels of low cunning.
Question 62: Said she: "Tom, it was middling warm in school, warn't it"?
Question 63: "Yes'm".
Question 64: "Powerful warm, warn't it"?